---
layout: package
hero_text: about Page!
title: Package Directory
---
<div class="content2">

<div class="content2-pagetitle">Package Directory</div>

<div class="content2-container line-box">
<div class="content2-container-1col">


<p>The Package Directory allows you to browse the software that is available </p>

<h2 id="package-sets-and-packages">Package Sets and Packages</h2>

<ul>
  <li><a href="/sets">Package Sets</a> contain the build system configuration that
define groups of packages.</li>
  <li><a href="/pkg">Packages</a> are where the code itself is stored. What you usually
want to do is find the packages that are of interest to you and add them to
your local installation. In addition to package information (dependencies,
&hellip;), links to the package API are also provided (if the package generates an
API documentation using e.g. Doxygen)</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="orogen-information">oroGen information</h2>

<p><a href="documentation/orogen">oroGen</a> is the component-based integration layer used
in Rock.</p>

<ul>
  <li><a href="/tasks">oroGen Tasks</a> The list of oroGen tasks that are defined on
this system, along with links to the API documentation (generated by Doxygen)
and to the autoproj package that define them.</li>
  <li><a href="/types">oroGen Types</a> The list of types that are registered through
oroGen on this system (i.e. used in tasks), along with links to the API
documentation (generated by Doxygen) and to the autoproj package that define
them.</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="os-dependencies">OS Dependencies</h2>

<p>The OS dependencies are a way to use the underlying operating system package
management system, i.e. to install packages prebuilt for your system instead of
building things from source.</p>

<p>The <a href="/osdeps">OS dependencies</a> pages list the OS dependencies definition, i.e.
for an osdeps name (which is a simple name referring to a software), which
packages would be installed on which operating system.</p>



              </div>
          </div>
      </div>
